---
title: Monday's Dream
date: 2003-08-05
---

Aunt Mabel picked her novel up from the ottoman and resumed her in-depth reading of murder and romance in upper-class France. What I didn't understand about those novels wasn't really the incompetent literary style, the empty form, or flagrant abuse of the English language, but it was the cover. Books of this sort always seemed to have some sort of **cryptic or perverse image** of death or love blown grotesquely out of proportion on the cover, surrounded by bold text, embossed and abusingly glossy or metallic, oftentimes pink. I think it was this visual stimulus that caused such a distaste for such novels in me. I was thinking about the reasons for my contempt, and was actually contemplating disowning them, when Aunt Mabel came back in the room from the kitchen with **a bag of Lay's potato chips** and sat down to read her book. I sat back in the overstuffed chair that the dog usually sits in, and I stared at her there, **curled up like a mole** in the folds of the chair, and I began to wander in that vast and uncharted space of consciousness frequently referred to as memory. I used to visit often, as I appreciated the challenge of cutting through underbrush and fighting **vine-like plants** from my ankles. It might also be said that the scent of the pines and the stimulus of the wind moving achingly so far above the tops of the trees provided some distant comfort from the **antiquated and enormously mysterious** darkness of the forest floor. All of this is an analogy, of course, and cannot be taken literally, as so many things cannot. Baumgarten once said that the object of logical knowledge was truth, and the object of sensual knowledge was beauty. I'm not entirely sure, but **somehow when I think** of sensuous response, or maybe he used the word 'sthetic, I frequently come back to a time much like the one I am describing now, in **the immutable forest of memory**.

It was a dream I had upon successive occasions as a younger boy wherein we were eating dinner, "we" being my family. For some reason, it was in the dead of **night when no sounds could be heard** outdoors, and most respectable people were sleeping. Yet the lights were on in the kitchen, and the family was carrying on with conversation as a family does during meals, even in the night. Dad and Mom, I remember, were having **a mild dispute** about Cuban imported foods. Dad was in favor of it, and mother wasn"t. They were just harmless products being held back by an international grudge. But no matter. The children were all wearing **formal clothing**, most of which I had no recollection of their persons. I mean, they were there, all right, but I can"t make out their faces. All I know is that **I don"t have 12 children in my family**. And each time, in the midst of this semi-cultivated meal of macaroni and cheese, a man would walk in from the front bedroom in a yellow-vinyl suit. He would wear a top-hat of the same design, and had blonde sideburns that covered the sides of his face. Upon his entrance, the room would become silent, and **everyone would stare** at their plates, pushing their peas around as if to not make eye-contact with the stranger. Without fail he would walk over behind my chair where I could not see him. I could only hear his **expensive shoes** padding in the deep carpet. After a brief pause, he would mechanically reach for the back of my head and feel on it searchingly. Two twins across the table would look horrifyingly at me. His groping would intensify until he would stick his nose right in the swirl in the middle of the part of my hair, and he would inhale in a slow and tremendous gust. "**Greenbacks**," he would say breathlessly, "**greenbacks**." He would then take off his top-hat, comb his sweaty blonde hair with his hands, and then exit cordially. We would finish our meal in silence.
